# Cloud based_Attendance system
The attendance management and information system software was designed using the object oriented programming software design methodology because it aids code reusability, ease of software maintenance and software refactoring or reengineering. The graphical user interface were developed using Hypertext Mark-up language (HTML), cascading style sheets (CSS), JavaScript programming language. The graphical user interface is the medium through which users of the cloud based management information system would interact with its functionalities by the use of forms, tables, and buttons. Since the cloud based attendance management system is a combination of a transaction processing and management information system a backend for the processing of MFRC522 RFID card unique ID received from the ESP-12E Node microcontroller unit via HTTP request was developed using Hypertext preprocessor (PHP) for efficient processing.

The interaction of staff and students with the RFID hardware module would generate a lot of data that wassent via HTTP requests to the attendance management and information system hosted on a web server. The data generated needs to be stored securely and efficiently after processing, for this to be achieved MYSQL relational database management system which offers

high performance, high availability, scalability and flexibility, strong data protection, good transactional support and very low cost of ownership was developed. The low cost of ownership makes it ideal for making this system very cost effective. A relational database aids data relationship using tables as a medium of data storage. Keys called primary and foreign keys are used to achieve data relationship between tables.

The language used to interact with the MYSQL relational database management system is the structured query language (SQL). The database to support all modules and functions of the attendance management and information system was designed to ensure efficient and fast data query and retrieval, eliminate data redundancy, and ensure ease of maintenance and scalability while maintaining proper relationships between tables that exist within the database.
